About Family Map
================

History
-------
Family Map started life in 2010 as a paid for piece of work for 
Woodnewton - A Learning Community, based in Corby, UK.  Woodnewton is a large 
school with a lively, dedicated staff of professionals that provide care and 
education for children aged 0 to 11.

As part of the work they do, they have to secure funding, primarily from public
sources.  As a result, they need to ensure that 
a/ the services they provide are being targeted at the appropriate audiences
b/ that service usage meets criteria set down by the funders
c/ that they are not ignoring sections of their target population through lack
   of knowledge of that population

Family Map was created by ZF4 Business Limited (ZF4) to help achieve these 
objectives.

In Jan. 2012, it was decided that the software was of potential use to a large
number of similar organisations and that the best way to spread the good news
was to release it as Open Source software under the terms of the GNU Affero 
General Public License (AGPL).  This would allow other schools and institutions
to benefit from the work already done and ensure that any enhancements that are
made by third parties can be rolled back into the product for the benefit of all.

What is it
----------

Family Map is software that allows a school or similar organisation to enter
member (customer) details including their address, service usage and relationships
between the members.  The system can then display geographic information using
the Google Maps API.  Schools can draw regional area overlays on the map and 
have the system produce reports using this geographic information to ensure that
service reach into target areas is being met.  The system also allows reporting
based on a wide range of user definable criteria and relationship criteria, and
allows the recording and reporting of service attendance.

In the "paid for" version (see below), schools can graphically map relationships
between members.

Where is it going
-----------------

We hope that sufficient interest will be generated for Family Map that it becomes
a viable alternative to the very expensive systems that schools are forced to
use in the absence of such software as this being freely available.  We are also
hoping that through community contribution, the system can be made somewhat more
generic to make it useful for a broader audience.

What is the 'paid for' version
------------------------------
The Community Edition of Family Map contains all the functionality that you need
to run the system with one principle exception: It cannot display relationships
graphically.  This is because the software to do this (Constellation Roamer, 
by Asterisq - see http://asterisq.com/products/constellation/roamer/demo) is not
free.  It is commercially available.  Nothing we can do about it, and actually,
nor do we mind, as the developer has a right to make a charge for his labour.
You can enable this feature in Family Map by purchasing the ZF4 addon pack which
contains the Asterisq software, the necessary additional configuration to make
it work with Family Map, and a license for use of the Constellation Roamer in a
single instance of the system.

Ashley Kitson
Feb, 2012
